Follow below steps to know how to install MYSQL server on raspberry pi or to know how to install MariaDB server on raspberry pi.
Please open the raspberry pi terminal.
Execute the following command to update the existing packages.
sudo apt-get update
Now execute the following to install MySQL server which is shown below. While installing if it is asking do you want to continue then please enter y and hit enter
sudo apt-get install mysql-server

Now please execute the following command for secure installation which is shown below.
sudomysql_secure_installation
 
Please hit Enter for current root password.
Now please Enter y and hit Enter for setting a new password which is shown below


Now Please enter New password which is shown below.


Now please enter y to remove anonymous user and hit Enter.


Now please enter y to disallow remote login which is shown below


Please enter y to remove test databases which is shown below

Please enter y to reload privileges tables which is shown below

Now please execute the following command to login into the database and Enter the password which you have entered in step 7.
sudomysql -u root –p



Please execute the following command to see databases present in the mysql database.
show databases;


Execute the following to create Demo database in mysql server which is shown below.
CREATE DATABASE Demo;


Now please execute the following to go in Demo database
USE Demo;


Please execute the following command to create database user
CREATE USER ‘admin’@’localhost’ IDENTIFIED BY ‘admin’;

Execute the following command to grant all previleges
GRANT ALL PRIVILEGES ON Demo.* TO ‘admin’@’localhost’;


Now execute the following command save all the changes
FLUSH PRIVILEGES;



Now please execute the following command to come out of database.
quit


Execute the following command to restart the MYSQL server
sudo service mysql restart



Follow the following steps to insert and fetch from the MySQL database.
Open the raspberry pi terminal.
Execute the following command to login to the database and enter the password which is shown below.
sudomysql -u root –p

Execute the following command to use Demo database which is shown above.
USE Demo;
Output: MariaDB [(none)]> use Demo
	Database changed
Execute the following command to create login table which has two coloumsi.e is username and password which is shown above.
create table login(username varchar(25), password varchar(25));
Output: MariaDB [Demo]> create table data(snoint(11), temp varchar(25), hum varchar(25));
Query OK, 0 rows affected (0.06 sec)
Execute the following command to insert data into login table which is shown below.
insert into login values(‘admin’,’admin123′);



To see the inserted values please execute the following command which is shown below
select * from login;



To insert data values
Output: MariaDB [Demo]>insert into login values(‘user’,’user123′);
Query OK, 1 row affected (0.01 sec)
To delete data values
Output: MariaDB [Demo]> delete from data where username=‘user’;
	Query OK, 1 row affected (0.01 sec)
To update data values
Output: MariaDB [temphum]> update data set temp='26.4' where sno=1;
Query OK, 1 row affected (0.01 sec)
  Rows matched: 1  Changed: 1  Warnings: 0
To exit
Output:MariaDB [temphum]> Ctrl-C -- exit!
Aborted
pi@raspberrypi:~ $